  
  <div class="content">
    <div class="field field-name-body field-type-text-with-summary field-label-hidden"><div class="field-items"><div class="field-item even"><p>This is the schedule for the current school year - 2019-2020.  It is updated as dates are announced and competitions signed up for.</p><p><strong style="font-size: 13.008px;">Season dates</strong></p><ul style="font-size: 13.008px;"><li><strong>9/27-9/29/2019 - Chezy Champs</strong> at Bellarmine College Prep in San Jose (off season competition). Off season events are fun because we compete with the previous season’s robot. It is a great way for new members and their parents to get a taste of a competition. Chezy Champs is particularly fun because many of the best teams on the west coast attend.   </li><li><strong>10/4-10/6/2019 - CalGames</strong> at Woodside High School in Woodside.  We have not been to this competition for a while but this year we will be competing with our "third robot".  This is the robot that team members have been working on all summer.</li><li><strong>11/10-11/11/2019 - Madtown Throwdown</strong> in Madera (off season competition near Fresno). We will be taking three robots and will need lots of help at the competition. We will drive to Madera on Friday after school and come home on Sunday. Monday is a school holiday. This is a great time for members to get to know each other better. Family members are welcome to come too. This is where we usually debut our “third robot” that the team is currently working on. Many new members have been involved in designing the robot and will help make parts and assemble the robot.  This year because we are taking the third robot to CalGames, there will be an opportunity to compete with it a second time.</li><li><strong>August through Dec</strong> - training and preparation for the season. Taking advantage of training during this period will make the season more fun. </li><li><strong>1/4/2020 - 2020 Season Kickoff</strong> - the new season game will be released that morning and the team will analyze the game and begin planning and prototyping our design ideas. This is an exciting time when the robot design is roughed out. A lot will be done during that weekend. You can attend the local kick-off at San Jose State University, watch the kick-off with team members in the lab, or watch it at home. The first few days are when a lot of strategy and design decisions are made. Try to attend as many meetings during this time as possible - you won’t regret it. </li><li><strong>145 - 2/19/2020 - Main Build Period</strong> - we will be meeting 5 days a week - 4 work days and one leadership meeting - to get the robot designed and built in these six weeks. That’s not much time and we need all the help we can get. The leadership meets one day a week to work on planning. All members are welcome to attend and participate in the leadership meetings - we always need leaders and we provide support. </li><li><strong>2/19/2020 - Goal for Robot completion</strong> - This day is the Tuesday during the MVHS winter break. We will work all three days of the long weekend (President’s Day holiday) as well as Tuesday. We used to have to put our robot in a bag on this date but that requirement has been removed this coming year.  It is still important to get as much done as possible before this date in order to practive before our first competition.</li><li><strong>2/10-our first regional in March - Second Build Period</strong> - We build and test the practice robot and have drive team practice. The purpose of the practice robot is to test the robot design, work on coding, make improvements, and make changes before our first competition. During this period, things slow down... but only a little. It depends on how much we got done before stop build day. </li><li><strong>FIRST Regional Competitions</strong> - Team 971 attends two regional competitions.  The dates for the upcoming season (2019) are released in the fall and registration for these events begins in September.  We usually don't know what events we will be attending until sometime in November.  Before we know our competition dates, the information below is what we did last year for reference.  We will update this and our team calendar when we figure out the dates.</li><li><strong>3/19-3/22/2020 - San Francisco Regional Competition</strong> - We usually go to a regional in California in the middle of March. In 2020, we are registered for the San Francisco Regional at St. Ignatius College Preparatory, 2001 37th Avenue, San Francisco on March 19th-22nd, 2020. The San Francisco regional runs Friday through Sunday. The first day is a practice day and when any changes that need to be made on the competition robot will be made. Some team scouting will be done that day. The first day is optional for those not working directly on the robot. The second day is a competition day and everyone who can attend is needed to help work on the robot and scout the other robots - we rarely have enough people for all that needs to get done. This year you do not have to miss school. Matches on Saturday and Sunday morning are qualification matches with randomly selected alliances. Sunday is another full day of competition with the double elimination matches in the afternoon. The top 8 seeded teams in the qualification matches select their alliances for the elimination matches. This is when the scouting data is used. </li><li><strong>Third Build Period - </strong>This is between the two regionals and the team makes modifications and practices for our second regional. </li><li><strong>3/28-3/30/2019 - Utah Regional in West Valley City, Utah (a suburb of Salt Lake City)</strong> - We usually go to the Silicon Valley Regional in San Jose but this year because of the number of FRC teams, we were not able to sign up in 2019. It is March 28th-30th, 2019. It is held in the Maverik Center in West Valley City, Utah. Thursday is a practice day and when any changes that need to be made on the competition robot will be made. Some team scouting will be done. This day is optional for those not working directly on the robot. Friday is a competition day and everyone who can miss school is needed to help work on the robot and scout the other robots - we rarely have enough people for all that needs to get done. If you absolutely can't miss school, you can come on Saturday. Saturday is another full day of matches with the double elimination matches in the afternoon. Everyone should come and help. Friday is especially important so that we can get good scouting information for our drive team and alliance selection. </li><li><strong>Final Build Period - </strong>This depends on whether we qualify for the championship. During this time the team makes modifications and practices for championship competition. </li><li><strong>4/15-4/18/2020 - FIRST Championship event in Houston</strong>. As some people on the team say, "When we qualify for the Championship" we will go to Houston in April. However, in order to attend, we need to win one of our regional events, win one of the top two judged awards, or if any are available, pick up a wildcard slot by being a finalist (in the second place alliance in the competition). This is definitely possible if we work hard during the season. We have qualified to attend in 2004, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. In the years after 2009 that we didn't qualify it was because of some reliability issues but we were very close to qualifying. Returning members will tell you that the Championship event is worth the effort.  This coming season, the Championship event will be held during the week after spring break.</li></ul></div></div></div>  </div>

  
  
</div>
  </div>
</div>
  </div>
    </div>