  <div class="content">
    <div class="field field-name-body field-type-text-with-summary field-label-hidden"><div class="field-items"><div class="field-item even"><h2><a name="2014" id="2014">2014: Aerial Assist</a></h2><p> </p><p>Aerial Assist is played using exercise balls 2 feet in diameter, similar to the balls used in the 2008 game, Overdrive. The game, as with all games in recent years, is played by two alliances, red and blue, of three teams (ie, three robots) each, with each alliance trying to outscore the other. At each tournament, a set of qualification matches with random alliances are played. The win-loss record of each team determines their seeding. For the elimination rounds, the top seeded teams get to select an alliance to play with them in the eliminatino rounds and the elimination rounds are played with a single-elimination bracket where, in order to progress in the bracket, a given alliance must when two out of three matches against another alliance. In the game, a<span style="line-height: 1.538em;">utonomous is a ten second period at the start of the match during which the robots operate independent of any human controller. Teleoperated mode is the remaining 2 minutes and 20 seconds of time during which humans can control the robots. </span><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">In autonomous, each robot starts with a ball and can try and score it in autonomous for more points than would be possible in the teleoperated mode.  During the teleoperated mode, the human players will be allowed to introduce one ball at a time, such that there is never more than a single ball of a given color on the field at a time (the red and blue alliances each have their own balls). These balls must be passed between alliance partners or thrown over a raised bar in the center of the field for extra points. The ball can then be scored in either a low (one points) or high (ten points) goal.</span></p><p><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">And here's the game animation:</span></p><p> </p><p>For more information, see the <a href="http://frc-manual.usfirst.org/">game manual</a>.</p><h2><a name="2013" id="2013">2013: Ultimate Ascent</a></h2><p> </p><p>Ultimate Ascent is played using relatively normal Frisbees which robots must score into slots at the opposite end of the field from their driver stations and then hanging from a pyramid at the end of the match. In the autonomous period, the first 15 seconds of the match, the robots can score Frisbees, which are either preloaded into the robot or placed on the field, for double points in the goals. Then, during the teleoperated period, teams may score the Frisbees in either a high goal for 3 points, one of the two middle goals for 2 points, the low goal for 1 point, or in a goal on the top of their alliance pyramid for 5 points (only matching color Frisbees can be scored in the pyramid goals). Frisbees enter the field through slots at the opposite end of the field. In the last 30 seconds of the match, human players may toss Frisbees over the top of the feeding station to try and score. At the end of the match, robots that have climbed and are hanging from their alliance pyramid can score 10, 20, or 30 points, for either hanging in the top, middle, or bottom zones.</p><p>Here is the Game Animation:</p><p> </p><p> </p><p>See the <a href="http://www3.usfirst.org/roboticsprograms/frc/2013-competition-manual-and-related-documents">game manual</a> for more information</p><h2><a name="2012" id="2012">2012: Rebound Rumble</a></h2><p> </p><p> </p><p>In Rebound Rumble, teams attempt to score 8" foam basketballs in any of 4 hoops: 1 hoop is on top and worth 3 points per basketball, there are 2 hoops in the middle, each worth 2 points, and there is one hoop on the bottom, worth 1 point. In a 15 second hybrid mode at the beginning of the match, robots can either score autonomously or be controlled by a human through Microsoft's kinect (new in 2012). At the end of a match, robots can balance on bridges in the center of the field, either balancing on their alliance bridge for 10 (1 robot), 20 (2 robots), or 40 points (3 robots; just 20 points during qualification matches)  or balance on the center bridge with a robot of the other alliance for coopertition points, which contribute to teams' seeding rank. Teams compete in alliances of three; alliances are chosen randomly for Qualification matches and are chosen through the <a title="Alliance Selection Process" href="http://frc-manual.usfirst.org/viewItem/58#5.4.1" target="_blank">Alliance Selection Process</a> for elimination matches.</p><p>Here is the Game Animation:</p><p> </p><p> </p><p>See the <a title="2012 game manual" href="http://www.usfirst.org/roboticsprograms/frc/competition-manual-and-related-documents" target="_blank">Competition Manual</a> for more information</p><h2><a name="2011" id="2011">2011: LogoMotion</a></h2><p> </p><p> </p><p>In LogoMotion, robots attempt to score triangular, square, and circular inner tubes on pegs in order to form the FIRST logo and score points. There were three different heights of pegs (the higher pegs were worth more points) and two scoring racks per alliance of three teams. In the first 15 seconds of the match, robots could score yellow "ubertubes" on pegs and double the value of any tube placed on top of them later in the match. in the endgame, teams would deploy and laucnh "minibots" to climb a pole, and more points are scored for faster minibots.</p><p>Here is the Game Animation:</p><p> </p><p>See the <a title="2011 Competition manual" href="http://www.usfirst.org/roboticsprograms/frc/2011-competition-manual-and-related-documents" target="_blank">Competition Manual</a> for more information.</p></div></div></div><div class="field field-name-field-tags field-type-taxonomy-term-reference field-label-above"><div class="field-label">Tags:&nbsp;</div><div class="field-items"><div class="field-item even"><a href="../tags/game.html">game</a></div><div class="field-item odd"><a href="../tags/first.html">FIRST</a></div><div class="field-item even"><a href="../tags/logomotion.html">logomotion</a></div><div class="field-item odd"><a href="../tags/rebound.html">rebound</a></div><div class="field-item even"><a href="../tags/rumble.html">rumble</a></div><div class="field-item odd"><a href="../tags/history.html">History</a></div><div class="field-item even"><a href="../tags/competition.html">competition</a></div></div></div>  </div>

  
  
</div>
  </div>
</div>
  </div>
    </div>
    
        <div class="section second-sidebar sidebar">
          <div class="region region-sidebar-second">
    <div id="block-menu-menu-game-years" class="block block-menu">

    <h2>Game years</h2>
  
  <div class="content">
    <menu><ul><li class="first leaf"><a href="#2011" title="2011: LogoMotion" class="active">2011</a></li>
<li class="leaf"><a href="#2012" title="2012: Rebound Rumble" class="active">2012</a></li>
<li class="leaf active-trail"><a href="#2013" title="2013: Ulltimate Ascent" class="active-trail active">2013</a></li>
<li class="last leaf"><a href="#2014" title="2014: Aerial Assist" class="active">2014</a></li>
</ul></menu>  </div>
</div>
  </div>
    </div>
    </div></div>
