      
  
  <div class="content">
    <div class="field field-name-body field-type-text-with-summary field-label-hidden"><div class="field-items"><div class="field-item even"><p><strong>This is the resources page. Here we document technical aspects of what we do in order to preserve knowledge and help people learn more about how to design, build, program, and operate robots. <span style="color: red;">Be sure and check the <a href="team-documents.html">Team Documents Page</a> if you don't find what you are looking for here.</span></strong></p><ul><li>The Spartan Robotics <a href="team-documents.html">Team Documents Page</a> has links to some of the many documents used to organize the team and design the robots. <span style="color: red;">Several of the links that used be included below have been moved to the <a href="team-documents.html">Team Documents Page</a></span></li><li>SolidWorks<ul><li>The SolidWorks <a href="../../971/blob/main/files/HowToMakeDrawingsRev2.pdf">Drawing Guide</a> describes how to create drawings for manufacturing parts from part drawings. Hershal created it. The most recent version in MS doc format is available in the 2011/doc svn folder.</li><li><a href="solidworks.html">SolidWorks Installation Guide</a></li><li><a style="color: #1155cc; font-family: arial, sans-serif; line-height: normal; background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.917969);" href="http://www.facebook.com/SolidWorksEducation" target="_blank" rel="noopener">www.Facebook.com/SolidWorksEducation</a><span style="color: #222222; font-family: arial, sans-serif; line-height: normal; background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.917969);"> is a facebook page dedicate to students and teachers who love SolidWorks.  </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: arial, sans-serif; line-height: normal; background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.917969);">The Facebook SolidWorksEducation page focuses on the SolidWorks Community, SolidWorks Tutorials, SolidWorks Jobs, and SolidWorks Certification. It's all about helping students, whether in class or looking for the best careers, find the tools they need. It's all about helping educators find the materials they need to make teaching and learning easier.  From May 22, 2012 email from Roy.</span></li></ul></li></ul><ul><li>We use <a href="subversion.html">Subversion (svn)</a> for the team CAD files, software development, and various other things that support the team.</li><li><a href="materials-and-supplies.html">Robot Materials and Supplies</a></li><li>The <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/wrrffilesandpages/">Western Regional Robotics Forum</a> (WRRF) puts on <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/wrrffilesandpages/2012-calgames">CalGames</a> and training sessions.  Here are the <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/wrrffilesandpages/workshops/workshop-presentations">presentation materials from the 2011 workshops</a> and workshops from prior years.  Ceal Craig, WRRF</li><li>Roy and others have suggested some <a href="tool-purchase-suggestions.html">new tools that would be good for the team to have.</a></li><li>List of <a href="http://www.cctvcameraworld.com/robotics-engineering-scholarships.html">Robotics Engineering Scholarships</a>.</li><li><a href="http://www.cctvcameraworld.com/robotics-resources-by-cctvcw.html">Robotics Education Resources</a> by <a href="http://www.cctvcameraworld.com/">CCTV Camera World</a>.</li><li><a href="getting-started-c-and-frc-programming.html">Getting Started on C++ and FRC Programming</a></li><li>Mentor and team member <a href="robot-programming-mentor-and-team-member-discussions.html">comments about how to make programming work for the team</a>.</li><li><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial; text-decoration: underline;" href="abused-pinion-gear.html">This abused pinion gear</a> shows why it is important to pay attention to gear loading.</li></ul><ul><li><a href="robot-wiring-techniques.html">Robot wiring technique</a>s</li></ul><ul><li><strong>Robot electronics</strong> - cRIO, Jaguars, 2CAN, and driver station.<br /><ul><li>cRIO, wireless adapter, and router <a href="crio-and-robot-control-system.html">configuration notes</a>.</li><li>Jaguar/Black Jaguar User Guides and Firmware.  <ul><li>The <a href="http://www.ti.com/mcu/docs/mcuorphan.tsp?contentId=100442&amp;DCMP=STELLARIS%C2%AEARM%C2%AECORTEX+Other&amp;HQS=Other+OT+jaguar">FRC 2012 game TI Jaguar page </a> has software and firmware updates along with documentation.   can be found here.  It has a new Jaguar firmware version.  <ul style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;">Be sure and read the notes from the 2011 season to learn more about the Jaguars.</li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;">As of 1/28/2012, the current firmware is V101.  This software is installed in C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Documents\FRC by the <a href="2012-software.html">software installation procedures</a>.  I downloaded documentation, version 101 of the firmware, and the BDC download software from the  <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial; text-decoration: underline;" href="http://www.ti.com/mcu/docs/mcuorphan.tsp?contentId=100442&amp;DCMP=STELLARIS%C2%AEARM%C2%AECORTEX+Other&amp;HQS=Other+OT+jaguar">TI Jaguar page</a> and put it in the  "All Users\Documents\FRC\Updated Version 101 Files - Use these - 2012-01-28" folder and put a link in the AllUsers Start menu to this folder on the programming laptops and called it "FRC Jaguar BDC Software, Firmware &amp; Docs".  I also copied all of the 2012 downloaded files to <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../tree/main/files/jaguar/2012">files/jaguar/2012</a> on the Spartan Robotics MVLA.net website.  They are:<ul style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/bdc-comm-101.exe">bdc-comm-101.exe</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/BlackJaguar-101.bin">BlackJaguar-101.bin</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/Jaguar-101.bin">Jaguar-101.bin</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-DataSheet-spmu064c.pdf">MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-DataSheet-spmu064c.pdf</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-FRC_2012_FAQ-spma033a.pdf">MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-FRC_2012_FAQ-spma033a.pdf</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-GettingStartedGuide-spmu131b.pdf">MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-GettingStartedGuide-spmu131b.pdf</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-ProductBrief-spmt197a.pdf">MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-ProductBrief-spmt197a.pdf</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-UsersGuide-spmu065d.pdf">MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-UsersGuide-spmu065d.pdf</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-UsersManual-spmu130c.pdf">MDL-BDC24_BlackJaguar-UsersManual-spmu130c.pdf</a></li><li style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;"><a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/2012/MDL-BDC_Jaguar-UsersGuide-spmu022c.pdf">MDL-BDC_Jaguar-UsersGuide-spmu022c.pdf</a></li></ul></li></ul></li><li>2011 Season: Jerry gave us a CD with the FRC LabView 2011, cRIO images and tools on it.  Michael reinstalled it on Californium September 2011. He downloaded the Jaguar firmware download code from here and found the <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/Jaguar-92.bin">Jaguar-92.bin</a>and <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/BlackJaguar-92.bin">BlackJaguar-92.bin</a> firmware files in the C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Documents\FRC folder.  We put a copy of these files on our website in the <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="https://frc971.org/files/jaguar/">http://frc971.org/files/jaguar/</a> directory.  They were installed on the computer after installing the <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="http://joule.ni.com/nidu/cds/view/p/id/2262/lang/en">FIRST Robotics Software 2011 - Utilities Update - Windows</a> update (I found this location from <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="http://forums.usfirst.org/showthread.php?t=16005">this forums.usfirt.org posting</a>).  This folder also has the <a style="border-style: initial; border-color: initial;" href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/bdc-comm-92.exe">bdc-comm-92.exe</a> Jaguar firmware download tool.  Michael Sept 2011.</li><li>The <a href="../files/jaguar/JaguarGettingStarted.pdf">2009 Getting Started Guide</a> is 7 pages long and has an overview of how the Jaguar works.  It has a nice FAQ section at the end that even explains why the Jaguar resets after a robot hits a wall.</li><li>The <a href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/MDL-BDC24_GSG.pdf">March 2010 MDL-BDC24 (black Jaguar) Getting Started Guide</a> is 33 pages long and has lots of details including a section on how to download the firmware files to the Jaguars.</li><li>The <a href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/MDL-BDC&amp;BDC24_FAQ.pdf">January 2010 Jaguar/Black Jaguar Frequently Asked Questions</a> document is 8 pages long and appears to be an updated version of the FAQ from the 2009 Getting Started Guide.  Both have part numbers for the connectors used for the external switch pins, CAN cable parts, and other useful components.  The document also describes how to order more Jaguars.</li><li>The <a href="http://www.ti.com/tool/mdl-bdc">TI Jaguar page</a> has five more documents on it.  Last accessed Nov 23, 2011.</li><li>BDC-COMM is the software used to download firmware to the Jaguars and set the Jaguar ID.  It is located in SharedDocuments\FRC\bdc-comm-92.exe (this also accessed on Windows XP by going to C:\DocumentsAndSettings\AllUsers\Documents\FRC).<ul><li><a href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/JaguarDownloadSoftwareDocumentation.pdf">User Guide for bdc-comm</a> software that is used to download firmware to the Jaguar.</li><li>Notes from downloading firmware Nov 27, 2011 Morgan, Paul, Alex, Dave &amp; Michael<ul><li>The <a href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/bdc-comm-92.exe">bdc-comm-92.exe</a> can be downloaded and run from a non privileged account (our team account) and it works fine.</li><li>Power cycle the robot if trying to use two Jaguars and there is not a link (yellow flashing light on one or both Jaguars).  You have a link (connection) with the Jaguar when the yellow light is solid on.</li><li>Cables matter.  Use a 6 conductor cable from the serial port connector to the Jaguar with the black and red on the left side of the conductor on one end and on the right side of the other conductor - pin 1 to pin 6, pin 2 to pin 5, pin 3 to pin 4.  The connector tabs are on the same side of the flat wire.  Pages 29-31 of the <a href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/MDL-BDC24_GSG.pdf">March 2010 MDL-BDC24 (black Jaguar) Getting Started Guide</a> describe the different cables and the terminor plug.</li><li>The CAN Bus cables between the Jaguars are different.  They can be 4 or 6 conductors.  The CAN bus only uses the middle four conductors to communicate between the Jaguars.  The black and red wires are on the same side of the connector on both ends of the cable - pin 1 to pin 1, pin 2 to pin 2, ... pin 6 to pin 6.  The connector tabs are flipped from one end of the cable to the other.  Pages 29-31 of the <a href="../blob/main/files/jaguar/MDL-BDC24_GSG.pdf">March 2010 MDL-BDC24 (black Jaguar) Getting Started Guide</a> describe the different cables and the terminor plug.</li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></li><li>2CAN is used to communicate with the Jaguars.  The software download page for the 2CAN is on the <a href="http://www.crosstheroadelectronics.com/2CAN.htm">http://www.crosstheroadelectronics.com/2CAN.htm</a> website.  It probably is a good idea to use the software listed in the FIRST section.  Brian says that you connect the 2CAN to a laptop and somehow set the computer network settings up to talk to the 2CAN and then access a webpage on the 2CAN to update the firmware.  See page 12 in the C:\Documents and Settings\Administrator\Desktop\2CAN\2CAN User Manual_v_1_4.pdf file on a programing laptop or download it from the <a href="http://www.crosstheroadelectronics.com/2CAN.htm">http://www.crosstheroadelectronics.com/2CAN.htm</a> website.  Michael Sept 2011. <ul><li>2012:  Downloaded User Manual and Firmware into  C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Documents\2CAN.  Added Start menu link to the 2CAN directory called "FRC 2CAN Firmware and User Manual."  Here are links to them on the MVLS Spartan Robotics Website:<ul><li><a href="../files/2CAN/2012/2CAN_Firmware_2_21_FIRST.crf">2CAN_Firmware_2_21_FIRST.crf</a></li><li><a href="../files/2CAN/2012/2CAN_User_Manual_v_1_5.pdf">2CAN_User_Manual_v_1_5.pdf</a></li><li><a href="https://frc971.org/content/files/2CAN/2012/2CAN%20Firmware%20Utility_1_4.zip">2CAN Firmware Utility_1_4.zip</a> - Firmware download utility.</li></ul></li></ul></li><li>Driver Station Notes:<ul><li><a href="http://www.instructables.com/id/Control-System-Basics/?ALLSTEPS">Control System Basics</a> - All the basics about the robot control system</li><li>Before the 2011 Madtown Throwdown competition, we would loose control of the practice bot.  It would not respond to stick inputs so we would have to disable it.  It appeared that the labtop was loosing communication with the USB devices used for the wheel, throttle, and manipulators.  Perhaps the powered drive wheel was part of the problem.  We replaced the passive USB hub with a powered USB hub and this greatly reduced the problems and may have even eliminated them.  The unit we purchased was a <a href="http://www.centralcomputers.com/ccp78831-23ws-uh3041-usb3-0-2-0-4-ports--hub-w--ac-adapter--ws-uh3041-dri-uhws3041.htm">Winstar WS-UH3041</a> USB3.0/2.0 4-Ports Hub w/ AC Adapter Black 5Gbps for $30 from <a href="http://www.centralcomputers.com/commerce/misc/sunnyvale.jsp">Central Computers on El Camino Real in Sunnyvale</a>.  Michael &amp; Alex.</li></ul></li></ul></li></ul><ul><li><a href="technical-resources.html">Technical Resources</a></li><li>Interesting and helpful <a href="robotics-articles.html">articles, books, and stories</a>.</li><li><a href="programming.html">Programming notes</a>.</li><li><a href="first-links.html">Important links into the FIRST organization</a> for team registration and building robots. Also has the game documents.</li><li>Roy found a video by AirbrushTricks on making <a href="http://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-make-real-Vinyl-Stickers-stickers/">custom vinyl stickers</a> using waterproof vinal and Polyfocus 1000 Glossy Over-Laminate.  Nov 15, 2011.</li><li><a href="http://www.hscripts.com/tutorials/html/index.php">Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML)</a> and <a href="http://www.hscripts.com/tutorials/css/index.php">Cascading Style Sheet (CSS)</a> tutorials for writing web page source. They have other software tutorials too.</li></ul><h2>Website management</h2><ul><li>Tutorial on <a href="creating-user-accounts.html">creating accounts</a>.  This page also tells how to change a password from the "<a href="https://frc971.org/users/michael#overlay-context=content/creating-user-accounts&amp;overlay=admin/people">People</a>" page.</li><li>Overview of <a href="https://frc971.org/content/updating-website">updating the website</a> (only visible to logged-in users).</li><li><a href="https://frc971.org/content/website-notes">Notes on how to manage the website and update the content</a> on it (only visible to logged-in users).</li><li>If you have an account, login to the website and edit pages by going to <a href="../user.html">frc971.org/user</a>. </li><li>Website backups can be made and downloaded by going to <a href="https://frc971.org/admin/config/system/backup_migrate">Home &gt;&gt; Configuration &gt;&gt; System &gt;&gt; Backup and Migrate</a>.  The SQL dump will contain all of the textual data for the site, as well as settings. There are also, of course, the various binary files stored in the "/images" and "/sites" folders to back up, too. </li><li>Articles show up on the website home page.  Sticky ones have precedence over the others and demoted ones don't show up on the home page.  Use the "update options" feature on the <a href="../index.html#overlay=admin/content">content page</a> to control these attributes.</li><li>The website will work best in the long run if we use the Drupal Content Management System (CMS) for web pages and save images and documents outside of the CMS.  The CMS uses some sort of a database which will become unwheeldy if too many large files are added to it.  Some systems don't alow deleting of things added which means that it is important to always uses something else for the images and documents.<ul><li>The team frc971.org server is managed by Stephan and Michael.  It is on a fiber Ethernet connection so it has fast file access.  It is also backed up nightly to a remote site so files stored there are less likely to be lost.  Store images, pdf documents, and other content in apache.frc971.org:/var/www/frc971.org/{images,pdf,...}.  Access these files with links like <a href="../images/20111227_svn_checkOut_michael.PNG">/images/20111227_svn_checkOut_michael.PNG</a>.  Michael</li><li>We have some content in links to apache.frc971.org:/var/www/frc971.org/pdf.</li><li>In the past, we have been adding images to this site by uploading them to the <a href="http://picasaweb.google.com/971.FIRST/">971 Google Picasa website</a> in the SpartanRoboticsWebsiteResourceImages album, and then using the "Link to this Photo" information from the right frame when viewing the image to extract a link to the photo. Be sure and select the correct image size in the "Select size" drop-down menu in the right frame. See the <a href="robot-wiring-techniques.html">Robot wiring techniques</a> page for examples of linked in Google Picasa images.</li></ul></li></ul><p>As of October 2010, most of the content on these resource pages has been added by Michael Schuh with significant help by Parker Schuh. If you have comments on the existing pages or suggestions contact Michael or Parker. Also contact them if you would like to add some content. Any and all help will be greatly appreciated. Michael can be reached by email at Michael.971web at Boardsailor.com and or by phone at (650) 965-8037 Home and (650) 604-1460 Work. </p></div></div></div>  </div>

  
  
</div>
  </div>
</div>
  </div>
    </div>