<div class="content">
    <div class="field field-name-body field-type-text-with-summary field-label-hidden"><div class="field-items"><div class="field-item even"><h2>SolidWorks 2013 (for FRC 2014 Season)</h2><p>Ask Wyn for instructions on how to download and install it.</p><h2>SolidWorks 2010 Download Instructions</h2> <p>Follow these directions to install SolidWorks 2010.  The 971 team uses SolidWorks to design our robots.  It is a high end commercial Computer Aided Design (CAD) package that is provided to FRC teams at no charge.  It costs thousands of dollars per year to use for commercial purposes.  We are very fortunate to be able to use such a high quality package.</p> <ol> <li>If you have SolidWorks 2009 installed, uninstall it.  Don't worry about saving the license key, you will get another one for 2010 below.</li> <li>Go to <a href="http://www.solidworks.com/sw/education/SDL_welcome.html">http://www.solidworks.com/sw/education/SDL_welcome.html</a>, read through the page, and click on "English SolidWorks Student Design Kit request form" at the bottom of the page.</li> <li>Fill out the required information with your own information, using D7150FRC for the “School License ID or SDK-ID” field, then click “Request Download”.  Be sure and select "<span style="color: #ff0000;">2010</span>" in the "Version:" drop down menu.  Leave <em>VAR Name:</em> blank.</li> <li>Click on "Accept Agreement and Continue" at the bottom of the <em>SolidWorks Student License Program - Summer/Fall 2010</em> page</li> <li>There are two "Download" links right at the top of the page.  Choose either 32 or 64 bit. (If you are running XP, you are most likely to have 32 bit)</li> <li>Save the SolidWorksSetup.exe file from the “Download” link.  It is a good idea to make a folder to save it in called something like "SolidWorks 2010 Install".</li> <li>Go to the folder ("SolidWorks 2010 Install") where you saved the SolidWorksSetup.exe file and run it.</li> <li>Choose a location to unzip the files with the “Browse” button (the default is probably fine) and then click the “Unzip” button</li> <li>After the file unzips, the <em>SolidWorks 2010 SP2.1 Installation Manager</em> will run and ask you to specify the type of installation.  Select <em>Individual (on this computer)</em> and click on <em>Next</em> in the bottom right hand corner.  If it does not run, then run the "setup.exe" program in the "SolidWorks 2010 Install" folder.</li> <li>The next screen will ask you for a serial number; the serial number, which you will receive at the email address you provided earlier.  Use the one from the email.  <!--If that does not work, try the License number: <font face="Courier New">9000 0078 6070 2423 9FWP 6W29</font> .-->Leave the <em>Do You Have Other Serial Numbers</em> boxes unchecked and click on <em>Next</em> in the bottom right hand corner.</li> <li>Skip to the next step if you don't have the 2009 version installed.  If you have the 2009 version still installed, you may see a screen that asks you to select either <em>Create a new installation of SolidWorks 2010 SP2.1</em> or <em>Upgrade SolidWorks 2009 to SolidWorks 2010 SP2.1</em>.  I suggest selecting <em>Upgrade SolidWorks 2009 to SolidWorks 2010 SP2.1</em> if you have 2009 installed. </li> <li>The next screen is the <em>Summary</em> screen that shows what will be installed.  Use the defaults shown.  It will list the <strong>Estimated installation size: 2.9 GBytes</strong> and <strong>Estimated download size: 1.8 GBytes</strong>.  Click on <em>Download and Install</em> in the bottom right hand corner.</li> The download will take 20 minutes to over 3 hours depending on your network connection.   <li>SolidWorks will automatically download and install.  On the <em>Installation is Complete</em> screen, unselect <em>Show me What's New in SoldWorks 2010</em> (unless you want to see this) and <em>Tell us how we can improve your installation experience</em> options and select the <em>No, I choose not to participate</em> option.  Click on <em>Finish</em> in the bottom right hand corner.</li> <li>Start SolidWorks from the Windows Start menu or by clicking on it on your desktop and follow the on-screen instructions to activate it.  The license is good for 150 days from the day of installation, or until 30 November 2011, whichever comes first.</li> <li>After activation, you may see a window that asks for units.  If you do, select IPS (inch, pound, second).</li> <li>You can delete the download installation files once you have activate SolidWorks.</li> <li>To go through the <span style="color: red;"><strong>SolidWorks Training Exercises</strong></span>, start SoldWorks and click on the <strong>Tutorials</strong> option under the <strong>Getting Started</strong> heading in the <strong>SolidWorks Resource</strong> frame on the right side of the screen.  If you can't find this, you can also get to the same place by clicking on the <strong>SolidWorks</strong> name in the top left corner.  This will expose the <strong>Help</strong> menu to the right of the <strong>SolidWorks</strong> name.  Click on <strong>SolidWorks Tutorials</strong> in the <strong>Help</strong> menu to show the tutorials on the right of the screen.</li> <li>Send Michael Schuh any comments, corrections, or suggestions you have on these directions.</li> </ol><p> </p> <h2>SolidWorks 2009 Download Instructions</h2> <ol type="1"> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">Go to </span></span><a href="http://www.solidworks.com/sdk2009"><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="color: #0000ff;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="font-size: small;">www.solidworks.com/sdk2009</span></span></span></span></a></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">Click on “English SolidWorks Student Design Kit request form” at the bottom of the page</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">Fill out the required information with your own information, using D7150FRC for the “School License ID or SDK-ID” field, then click “Request Download”.  Be sure and select "<span style="color: #ff0000;">2009</span>" in the "Version:" drop down menu.<br /> </span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">Accept the agreement and continue at the bottom of the page</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">Choose the version of SolidWorks for your computer, either 32 or 64 bit. (If you are running XP, you are most likely to have 32 bit)</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">Save and run the file from the “Download” link</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">Choose</span></span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;"> a location to unzip the files </span></span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">with the “Browse” button </span></span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">and then click the “Unzip” button</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">The first window</span></span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;"> that appears will ask you for a serial number; the serial number, which you will receive at the email address you provided, is </span></span></li> </ol> <p style="margin-left: 36pt; margin-right: 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Courier New';"><span style="font-size: x-small;"><!--9020 0032 6364 0108 8M2J GXC8--></span></span></p> <ol type="1"> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">At the window that asks for installation type, choose “Individual (on this computer)” and click next</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;"> At the next window, choose not to install Windows Desktop Search 2009 and SolidWorks Search</span></span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">, then click Next</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;"> At the “Hole Wizard and Toolbox” Window, keep the default file location choice and click Next</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">At the “Source of Installation Files” window, keep the default “Download remaining files from SolidWorks via the Internet” option and click Next</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;"> On the “Ready to Download (1.7GB)” window, </span></span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">choosing “install automatically after download is complete” will cause the program to install SolidWorks automatically after it is done downloading it; not choosing it will cause the program to not install SolidWorks after downloading it until the user says to do so</span></span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">. Once you have made your choice, click the “Download Now” button</span></span></li> <li><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">SolidWorks will automatically download and install if you have chosen automatic installation</span></span></li> </ol><p><br /> Note: if you choose to in (9) above to save the files to your disk, you will get the message "Warning: Only the Installation Manager can install the files it downloaded (do not run swsetup or install manually). To install, run C:\Documents and Settings\Administrator\My Documents\SolidWorks Downloads\SolidWorks 2009 SP04.1\SolidWorks 2009 SP4.1 Installation Manager. Refer to the ReadMe document in the download folder for more details." after everything has been downloaded.  Michael Schuh Oct 19, 2009<br /> <br /> For (11), you can also use <br /> <br /></p> <p style="margin-left: 36pt; margin-right: 0pt;"> C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Documents\SolidWorks Data </p> <h3 style="margin-right: 0pt;">Team Emails</h3> <p style="margin-right: 0pt;">From Hershal Oct 22, 2009</p> <p style="margin-right: 0pt;"> </p> <p style="color: #cc0000; margin-left: 40px; margin-right: 0pt;">During build season, the first few weeks will be spent designing the robot using the CAD software SolidWorks. In SolidWorks, we create a complete 3D model of the robot, so that we know how everything will fit together. Some screen-shots of SolidWorks models are attached. SolidWorks can be downloaded by following the instructions on the attached guide, and you must have SolidWorks installed on at least one computer, preferably one with a decent CPU, RAM, and graphics card, as SolidWorks is quite demanding. If you are interested in CAD but the downloading did not work for you, please let me know.<br /> <br /> If you are interested in helping with CAD but do not know how to use SolidWorks, don't worry. We have had a few training meetings for SolidWorks, and we will probably have more. In addition, SolidWorks comes with some tutorials which are quite useful. If you have any questions about SolidWorks, please e-mail me or Scott at <a title="mailto:scott@bahl.com" href="mailto:hershalspatel@gmail.com">scott@bahl.com</a> or <a title="mailto:scott@bahl.com" href="mailto:scott@bahl.com">scott@bahl.com</a><br /> <br /> I look forward to working with you,<br /> --Hershal</p> <p style="margin-right: 0pt;"> </p> <p style="margin-right: 0pt;">From Hershal Oct 23, 2009</p> <p style="margin-left: 40px; margin-right: 0pt;"> </p> <p style="color: #ff0000; margin-left: 40px; margin-right: 0pt;">About the SolidWorks tutorials: The most important tutorials to do are the Getting Started tutorials and the Sheet Metal tutorial in the Special Types of Models Category.<br /> <br /> Also, if you are interested in CADing during the build season, please let me know, so that way we can start to have an idea of how many people we will have.<br /> <br /> --Hershal</p> <p style="margin-left: 36pt; margin-right: 0pt;"> </p><p>From Austin Oct 23, 2009 in response to Hershal's email</p> <div style="margin-left: 40px;"><span style="color: #ff0000;">Thanks for working on this!!!!  I've been hearing a number of good things about your CAD training sessions.  Thanks for working so hard on those. </span><br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <span style="color: #ff0000;">I'll make this offer to you too.  I've already talked with Scott, but I don't know if he passed the offer on. </span><br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <span style="color: #ff0000;">I'm willing to help train the people who want to design and CAD the robot during the season once the team decides on a strategy.  Going from my own experience, I learned a lot about how to use CAD by just practicing and having people review what I drew.  When you find people who are interested in CADing the robot, I can help them find things to draw that are at their current level and then review the models they come up with after they finish.  I believe this will help them get good at the mechanics of Solidworks and also how to design assemblies that will actually work and be easy to make if built. </span><br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <span style="color: #ff0000;">If you can think of other things that I can do to help out, let me know.  I'm hoping for a second SVR win with 254 again and this is one way I see that I can help us get there </span><span class="moz-smiley-s1"><span style="color: #ff0000;"> :) </span></span><br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <br style="color: #ff0000;" /> <span style="color: #ff0000;">And as a rhetorical question, we're going to have the bot draw this year in a week and a half, not a couple, right? </span><span class="moz-smiley-s3"><span style="color: #ff0000;"> ;) </span></span></div><p><br /> Notes from Michael Schuh Dec 5, 2009 - Fixed installation problem on FRC 2008-2 computer.</p> <div style="margin-left: 40px;"><span style="color: #ff0000;">SolidWorks would not start properly.  It gave the error message: </span>Standalone license file failure.<br /> <span style="color: #ff0000;">I looked around on the web and found </span><a id="u8p5" style="color: #ff0000;" title="a post" href="http://fsae.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/125607348/m/549102833">a post</a><span style="color: #ff0000;"> that talked about how to fix this.  The post had:</span><br style="color: #ff0000;" /></div> <div style="color: #ff0000; margin-left: 40px;"><div style="margin-left: 40px;">I remember having similar issues...seems like it didn't properly uninstall Solidworks '08, and you had to manually go in there and delete the old license files yourself or it got very angry. Put together some quick instructions for our guys...they are probably a bit overkill, but should be reliable at least, and I didn't want to futz around with it much. Also, I hate anything related to indexing or any type of desktop search (massive resource hog on our ancient machines, and really nothing but a band-aid for poor file management IMO), so these instructions are more geared to appease the desktop search "feature" that I hadn't figured out how to exclude until after this was all taken care of. <br /> <br /> Installation instructions for installing Solidworks 2009 student edition on a machine that already has Solidworks 2008 student edition:<br /> <br /> 1. Uninstall COSMOS FloWorks and Motion Works<br /> 2. Uninstall e-Drawings and DWG editor<br /> 3. Uninstall COSMOS Works<br /> 4. Uninstall 3D XML Viewer, and absolutely anything else connected with either Solidworks or Dassault Systems<br /> 5. Uninstall Solidworks 2008<br /> 6. Go to C:\Documents and Settings\All Users in Windows Explorer, then go to the address bar and add \Application Data<br /> 7. Delete any folder that says anything about Dassault systems, Solidworks, or COSMOS<br /> 8. <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">Go to Set program access and Defaults --&gt; Add/Remove Windows Components, then turn on Indexing Service</span> - <span style="color: #274e13;">I did not do this.  Michael</span><br style="color: #274e13;" /></div></div> <div style="color: #ff0000; margin-left: 40px;"><div style="margin-left: 40px;"><div style="margin-left: 40px;"><span style="color: #274e13;">8a. I also deleted the folder "c:\Program Files\SolidWorks Corp" and the root user application data folder "C:\Documents and Settings\root\Application Data\SoldWorks".  If there is anything Cosmos or SolidWorks related in the Application Data folder, remove it too.  Added by Michael 12/5/09.</span></div></div></div> <div style="color: #ff0000; margin-left: 40px;"><div style="margin-left: 40px;">9. Restart computer<br /> 10. Install Solidworks 2009 <span style="color: #274e13;">(I did not install the "</span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="color: #274e13;"><span style="font-size: small;">Windows Desktop Search 2009 and SolidWorks Search" as directed in the directions at the top of this file.  I also put the SolidWorks data in "</span></span></span><span style="color: #274e13;">C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Documents\SolidWorks Data" rather than at the root level of the computer - step 11 above.  </span><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="color: #274e13;"><span style="font-size: small;">Michael)</span></span></span><br /> 11. Restart computer<br /> 11. Go back to Add/Remove Windows Components, then turn off Indexing Service (unless you enjoy watching your computer eat itself alive)<br /> 12. Restart computer<br /> 13. Run Solidworks (will prompt to activate now, etc.)</div></div><p><br /> <strong>July 2, 2010: Reactivation and Quick Installation of SolidWorks 2009 - Michael Schuh and Jai Musunuri<br /> <br /> </strong>You can go to the  <a href="http://www.solidworks.com/sdk2009"><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="color: #0000ff;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="font-size: small;">www.solidworks.com/sdk2009</span></span></span></span></a> link and ask for SolidWorks 2009 (on the page where you enter your name and school information choose "2009") and do as it says or follow the directions below.<br /> <br /> <strong>Reactivation of SolidWorks 2009<br /> </strong></p> <ol> <li>Find the installation manager.  It looks different for different versions.<ol> <li>2009 SP3.0: On FRC 2009-3, Selenium, we found it in C:\Documents and Settings\root\My Documents\Downloads\sldm\sldm.exe</li> <li>2009 SP5.0: On Schuh CAD machine, we found it in "C:\Documents and Settings\Administrator\My Documents\SolidWorks Downloads\SolidWorks 2009 SP05\SolidWorks 2009 SP5.0 Installation Manager" which is a link to "C:\Documents and Settings\Administrator\My Documents\SolidWorks Downloads\SolidWorks 2009 SP05\sldim\sldIM.exe"</li> </ol></li> <li>Run the installation manager from step 1.</li> <li>Enter the serial number: <span style="font-family: 'Courier New';"><span style="font-size: x-small;">9020 0032 6364 0108 8M2J GXC8</span></span> and hit "Next".</li> <li>At the "Installation Type" dialog window select "Cancel" and exit.</li> <li style="color: #000000;">Start SolidWorks from the Start menu<ol> <li style="color: #000000;">Select (it is likely the default) "I want to activate my SolidWorks product now" option and select "Next" while connected to the internet.  Use "Automatically over the Internet" and select "Next".  It should list the expiration date as <span style="font-family: 'Courier New';"><span style="font-size: x-small;">30 November 2011</span></span></li> <li style="color: #000000;">If you get an "expired message" close out SolidWorks and try again.</li> <li style="color: #000000;">If required enter your name and contact information.</li> </ol></li> <li style="color: #000000;">SolidWorks should work and run fine.  It said in the validation email that it will run until 30 November 2011 but we suspect this is a typo and it will run until 30 Nov 2010.<br /> <ol> <br /> </ol></li> </ol><p><strong><br /> Fresh Installation of SolidWorks 2009</strong></p> <ol> <li>Uninstalled SolidWorks 2009</li> <li>Deleted folders<ol> <li style="color: #000000;">C:\Documents and Settings\Administrator\Application Data\SoldWorks</li> <li style="color: #000000;">C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\SoldWorks</li> <li style="color: #000000;">C:\Program Files\SolidWorks</li> </ol></li> <li style="color: #000000;">Remove SolidWorks from the Registry.  Use regedit from Start/Run to delete [HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\SolidWorks]</li> <li style="color: #000000;">Rebooted and logged in as Administrator (or root if that is the Administrator account)</li> <li style="color: #000000;">Used a copy of SolidWorks 2009 SP05 from a previous download (see Jai or Michael Schuh for a DVD of this) in "C:\Documents and Settings\Administrator\My Documents\SolidWorks Downloads\SolidWorks 2009 SP05"<br /> <ol> <li style="color: #000000;">Run "SolidWorks 2009 SP5.0 Installation Manager"</li> <li style="color: #000000;">Entered serial number: <span style="font-size: small;"><span style="font-family: 'Courier New';"><span style="font-size: x-small;">9020 0032 6364 0108 8M2J GXC8 </span><br /> </span></span></li> <li style="color: #000000;">Selected the top two entries only in the list of five or so items.</li> <li style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: arial;"><span style="font-size: small;">At the “Hole Wizard and Toolbox” Window, </span></span>tell it to use: C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Documents\SolidWorks Data</li> <li style="color: #000000;">Told it to install and waited 10 - 20 minutes.</li> <li style="color: #000000;">Tell it no to everything on the "Installation is Complete" dialog screen and click finish.</li> </ol></li> <li style="color: #000000;">Start SolidWorks from the Start menu<ol> <li style="color: #000000;">Select (it is likely the default) "I want to activate my SolidWorks product now" option and select "Next" while connected to the internet.  Use "Automatically over the Internet" and select "Next".</li> </ol></li> </ol></div></div></div>  </div>

  
  
</div>
  </div>
</div>
  </div>
    </div>
    
    </div></div>