 <div class="content">
    <div class="field field-name-body field-type-text-with-summary field-label-hidden"><div class="field-items"><div class="field-item even"><p>The most recent version of this page is at <a href="svn://boardsailor.com/frc971/2011/trunk/src/packages/README.html">svn://boardsailor.com/frc971/2011/trunk/src/packages/README.html</a>.</p><p><em>This page will be used for documenting how the 2011 software works and is compiled and downloaded to the robot. </em></p><h2>This is the Readme for the 2011 code:</h2><p><span style="color: #99cc00;">All dependencies are reloaded when the code is reloaded so be careful when making new modules.</span><br /><br />in <strong>src/externals/</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; deploys wpilib.out<br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">#This CANNOT be reloaded.</span><br /><br />in <strong>src/packages/c_reloader</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; deploys SocketReloader.out<br />This runs a Server that reloads the names of the sockets that get sent to it.<br />important functions: <br />    int c_reload(char *modulename); <span style="color: #99cc00;">// modulename is "test" not "test.out"</span> <br />    int c_load(char *modulename);<br />    int c_unload(char *modulename);<br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">#This CANNOT be reloaded.</span><br /><br />in <strong>src/packages/controls_manager</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; deploys controls_manager.out<br />make reload <span style="color: #99cc00;">// also force reloads all reloadable modules</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">// only controls_logic depends on this one's headers (subclasses Teleopmode)</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">// this module syncs with the drivers station and deals with autonomous mode/not and disabled/enabled</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">// This should not need to be edited, but can be reloaded.</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">// This will need to be edited to add automode functionality.</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;"># Reloading this starts the code.</span><br /><br />in <strong>src/packages/plotter</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; deploys cpp_plotter.out<br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">#This CANNOT be reloaded.</span> <br /><br />in<strong> src/packages/robot_state</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; robot_state.out <span style="color: #99cc00;">//contains transfer structure for control data (like left and right speeds)</span><br />make reload <span style="color: #99cc00;">// also force reloads pid_loop and controls_logic</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">//if this is changed you need to remake pid_loop and controls_logic because they talk to this structure.</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">//pid_loop.out, controls_logic.out, and robot_state.out should be deployed before reload is called.</span> <br /><br />in <strong>src/packages/wpi_singletons</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; wpi_singletons<span style="color: #99cc00;"> //contains CANJaguar storage class and DoublePiston class</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">#This CANNOT be reloaded // because CANJaguars cannot be reallocated.</span><br /><br />in <strong>src/packages/pid_loop</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; pid_loop.out <span style="color: #99cc00;">//contains the drive code that sets the motors (control should flow from here)</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">// exceptions are made for things like the compressor, but not say a drive loop</span><br />make reload =&gt; cleanly reloads just pid_loop.out<span style="color: #99cc00;"> // no dependencies</span><br /><br />in<strong> src/packages/controls_logic</strong><br />make deploy =&gt; controls_logic.out<span style="color: #99cc00;"> //contains the code that reads the joystick data</span><br />make reload =&gt; cleanly reloads just controls_logic.out<span style="color: #99cc00;"> // no dependencies</span><br /><br />in <strong>src/bin</strong><br />ruby network_setup.rb <span style="color: #99cc00;">#sets up the network when pluged into the 971 router to read from the netconsole and plotter</span><br />ruby netconsole.rb <span style="color: #99cc00;">#reads from the network debug console output</span><br /><br />in <strong>src/tools/plotter</strong><br />ruby main.rb<span style="color: #99cc00;"> #runs plotter</span><br /><span style="color: #99cc00;">this depends on src/bin/network_setup.rb being run first (or at least netmask being set to 255.0.0.0)</span><br /><br /></p></div></div></div>  </div>

  
  
</div>
  </div>
</div>
  </div>
    </div>
    
    </div></div>