  
  <div class="content">
    <div class="field field-name-body field-type-text-with-summary field-label-hidden"><div class="field-items"><div class="field-item even"><p><strong>FRC Team 971 has three email lists that it uses for team communication.</strong> The first is the MVHS school elist. The second email list is a general Google group list.  The third email list is the team leadership Google group list.</p><h2>Mountain View High School elist</h2><p>This list is an open list and anyone can put themselves on the list through the school website. All meeting notices and general information will be sent out using this list. This is so that anyone who wants to join the team will have the necessary information.</p><h3>To add yourself to the school elist:</h3><ul><li>Go to the elist page <a title="MVHS E-List" href="https://mvhs.myelists.net/">https://mvhs.myelists.net/</a></li><li>Type in your name and the email address at which you wish to receive the emails.</li><li>Go to the section with the Elists for MVHS Clubs and Activities <span style="font-size: 13.008px; line-height: 20.0063px;">and select the second box marked "Join"</span> next to the Robotics Club (line 70).</li><li>Go to the bottom of the page and select "Submit and Review"</li><li>If it shows that you are joining the Robotics elist, select "Submit"</li><li>You will then be sent an email with a link. click on the link and you will be added to the list.</li></ul><h3>To remove yourself from the school elist:</h3><ul><li>Go to the elist page <a style="font-size: 13.008px;" title="MVHS E-List" href="https://mvhs.myelists.net/">https://mvhs.myelists.net/</a></li><li>Type in your name and the email address that you are receiving the emails at.</li><li>Go to line 70 (the Robotics Club) and select the second box marked "Leave"</li><li>Go to the bottom of the page and select "Submit and Review"</li><li>If it shows that you are leaving the Robotics elist, select "Submit"</li><li>You will then be sent an email with a link. click on the link and you will be removed from the list.</li></ul><p>This list is restricted to currently active team members and is used predominantly for communications during the build and competition season. Any member who attends meetings will be added to this list as well as active mentors. Parents of active members may also be put on this list upon request.</p><h2>Google Groups elists</h2><p>There are two Google Group email lists: team and leadership.  Members of the team are put on the team list.  Any member may be put on the leadership if they want to receive the extra team emails.  If you are not on these lists and want to be added to the Google group list or the leadership list, <a href="../contact.html">send the team adult leader, Wyn Schuh, a request</a>. Your request will be evaluated and if you are an active team participant, you will be added to the list.  If you have a Google Account associated with this subscription, you can use that account to access the team Google Docs.  See the Google Account section below for more information on creating a Google Account.</p><p>If you want to be removed from this list you may do it directly through Google Groups or <a href="../contact.html">request removal by sending Wyn Schuh a request to be removed via email</a>.</p><h2>Google Account</h2><p>The team uses Google docs and other Google tools to work collaboratively together.  If you need to, y<span style="line-height: 1.538em;">ou can create a Google Account with a</span><span style="line-height: 1.538em;"> </span><a style="line-height: 1.538em;" title="Create a Google Account with a non-Gmail email address" href="https://accounts.google.com/SignUpWithoutGmail?dsh=-511111045062124825&amp;continue=https%3A%2F%2Faccounts.google.com%2FManageAccount#FirstName=&amp;LastName=">non Gmail email address</a><span style="line-height: 1.538em;"> </span><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">or create an Google Account with a</span><span style="line-height: 1.538em;"> </span><a style="line-height: 1.538em;" title="Create a Google Account with a new Gmail email address" href="https://accounts.google.com/SignUp?dsh=-511111045062124825&amp;continue=https%3A%2F%2Faccounts.google.com%2FManageAccount#FirstName=&amp;LastName=">new Gmail email address</a><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">.</span></p><h2><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">Slack Account</span></h2><p><span style="line-height: 1.538em;">The team uses <a href="https://slack.com">Slack</a> for some of its communications.  Contact Wyn Schuh to be added to 971's Slack team account.  See the <a href="https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1LUf9bWOikhd8W-iGScjHHiIGsIZiUZja6I4dmUz1Vv8/edit">971 team one page Slack guide</a> for how to start using Slack to keep informed and communicate with others.</span></p></div></div></div>  </div>

  
  
</div>
  </div>
</div>
  </div>
    </div>
    
    </div></div>
